Let's talk about sealed
classes still in inheritance.
Not only does Java classes
have control over which
of its methods can be inherited,
but they can also
restrict inheritance altogether
to certain subclasses.
And this is a relatively
new feature within Java.
So classes that restrict inheritance to
specific classes are known
as sealed classes.
So sealed classes are useful for
modeling like a specific domain and
controlling the relationship
between the classes in that domain.
So here we have four classes shape,
circle, rectangle and square.
We can declare that the only
classes that can directly
inherit from shape are rectangle and
circle.
And we could allow square to
inherit from rectangle, okay?
So this is how you would
define a sealed class,
before the word class,
you would write this keyword sealed.
And then before you open those curly
braces, you would use the word permits.
So this is the super class.
After permits,
you would have a comma delimited
list of the classes that are permitted
to inherit from this class, okay?
If a sealed class lists
a subclass in the permits clause,
the subclass has to all ready exist,
right?
And it has to extend this class.
Otherwise you're gonna get
a compilation error, right?
So Rectangle extends Shape,
Circle extends Shape, and
then Shape has permitted Rectangle and
Circle.
Now, the children of sealed
classes are also required
to declare themselves as either sealed,
non-sealed or final.
They have to do this, the sealed class
controls who can inherit from it.
So in our domain,
the Rectangle will make a good sealed
class as we only want to
allow Square to extend it.
So in Rectangle here, we said, okay,
we're sealed and we extend Shape and
we permit Square.
So now you see it's
getting a little longer.
We're doing a little inheritance, and
then we're also saying,
who can inherit from us?
Non-sealed means that the class is open
to be extended by any other class.
So we'll declare Circle as non-sealed.
And any class that extends Circle
is not obligated to declare
themselves as sealed,
non-sealed or a final, right?
It'll simply be a normal inheritance.
So we kind of break the rule by, well,
stop the rule there when we
make ourselves non-sealed.
So none of our children have
to deal with this stuff.
And then final means that the class
cannot have any subclasses, right?
So it cannot be inherited from.
So Square would be the last of
the descendants in this hierarchy.
Questions on sealed?
Okay, to recap a sealed class grants
inheritance to a specific list of classes.
Every permitted subclass
must all ready exist,
and it must explicitly
extend the sealed class.
And if it does then it
must declare itself as
sealed, non-sealed, or final, yes?
>> For sealed classes, because the sealed
inheriting class has to all ready exist,
so that implied has to be in the same
package, just to know about it?
>> No, you would just import
it if you were talking about
a subclass that was in another package.
>> But like the overall overarching class,
like the class that's above it in
the hierarchy still has to know about the
class underneath it in order for it to,
like on the valid permissions list?
>> Yeah, you gotta know it exists.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, you have to know its name and
like where it lives,
what package it lives in.
And again, no one has to declare
themselves as a sealed class.
It's specifically for things where you
don't want everybody inheriting from you.
Maybe you're modeling some
specific construct or domain and
you're saying this is how
the inheritance should go.
So an architect might do something like
this to control who inherits from who and
keep things simple or something like that.
>> So, when do you have to use the
non-sealed keyword, it's a keyword, right?
>> Yeah, so you would use the non-sealed
keyword when you no longer want,
like if you don't want your children to.
You no longer have a need to
do a permission list, right?
So I inherited from a sealed class but
I don't wanna be a sealed class,
I wanna be open for regular inheritance.
So you would say non-sealed.
>> Okay, so you break that basically?
>> Yeah, you break the-
>> The chain of restriction or whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> Then like, class a is sealed,
class b is non-sealed.
For class c, would you have to
use like non-sealed cure at all?
>> b is non-sealed.
>> c inherits from b
>> c inherits from b.
>> c inherits from b,
then it's a regular inheritance.
You don't have to use sealed, non-sealed,
final or anything like that anymore.
>> If you use the final statement, and if
you wanted to add another class in there,
it would have to be prior to the final
statement or could you add another?
>> So if you had a final class and
you want to update your own class later,
you can do that.
Yeah, you can do it.
The final part means, anyone who inherits
from you or they can inherit from you,
no one else can inherit from me,
is what that means.
So you can do whatever you
want in the class itself.
You're not saying this is the final
implementation, but you're saying this is
the final stop on this inheritance chain,
no one else can inherit from me.
And if you had like
final can be on classes,
it could be on methods,
or it could be on fields.
So if it was on not the class but
on a method,
then someone can still
inherit from that class.
And they also inherit the final method,
they just cannot override that method.
And if it's the field, they inherit
the field but they cannot change it.
>> So if you had a hard-coded constant,
that's one of those cases where you'd
wanna use the final keyword on
that field or that variable?
>> Yeah, all right?
Any other, yeah.
>> So
sealed is kind of an extension of final,
no one can inherit sealed
only specific can inherit?
>> Sorta, I don't like to
think of it like that though.
So I guess so,
it's a way to limit access for sure.
So with final you're saying,
no one like the descriptor
they gave was correct but
the terminology is not my favorite.
But okay, yes,
the final means no one else.
If I have a final class,
no one else can inherit from this.
If I have a sealed class, then only
these classes can inherit from this.
So in that regard, yes, but
not an extension of final.
But a way to limit access, yes.